Boundary Docs: Configure workers refactor (#3077)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/boundary/v1.0.x/content/docs/workers/index.mdx

description: >-
  Configure Boundary workers to proxy sessions to private targets. Deploy, register, and tag workers, and chain them across networks with multi-hop sessions.
# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-05-11T10:18:43-04:00
last_modified: 2026-08-10T22:18:16.000Z
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# Overview of workers

Workers are primarily used as network proxies for Boundary sessions that allow you to access private targets. Instead of exposing a private network to the public or allowing users to have access to entire private networks, workers create a direct network tunnel between users and targets.

Workers are services that can run on a container or virtual machine. You should deploy them strategically within networks to provide access to targets.
In all editions of Boundary, workers are fully self-managed and can be deployed anywhere.
In HCP Boundary, HCP-managed workers are automatically deployed with the cluster.

All workers within Boundary use certificates and encryption keys to identify
themselves and protect data in transit. You can register workers using controller-led, worker-led, or external KMS workflows to fit your needs.

> You must register workers using the worker-led or controller-led methods in the system with an API call. These workers require storage on-disk to store the current set of credentials. Workers using an external KMS auto-register after authenticating. This makes KMS an easy mechanism to use for automatic scaling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must register workers using the worker-led or controller-led methods in the system with an API call. These workers require storage on-disk to store the current set of credentials. Workers using an external KMS auto-register after authenticating, making KMS an easy mechanism to use for automatic scaling.
```

> KMS registration also does not require workers to store credentials locally; the KMS re-authenticates them each time they connect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
KMS registration also does not require workers to store credentials locally; the KMS re-authenticates them each time they connect. 
```
maybe remove this sentence?
